I will come back in this video when looking at the final assignment which is a binary tree.
Now we've learned what a binary tree is it's time we look at some code and implement a few moments heads
just like in every other assignment we've done there are two methods to implement add and find the add
method is going to put a node in the binary tree in the correct position.
Remembering whether to go left or right at every junction and the find method is going to also use these
left left or right junctions but only to retrieve a node by its value.
I've also created some pseudo code to help you which is all in the next lecture in the article there
.
The add method will do a bunch of things if the route doesn't have a value already.
That means the binary tree is completely empty.
We're going to make the rules equal to the new note that we're adding.
But if it does have a value that means we have to go left or right depending on the roots value and
the new nodes value.
So we're going to create a variable called marker and make it equal to the root.
Then while the marker has a value it's not none.
We're going to do if the node that we're trying to add if the value is equal to the marker's value we
have to raise an error because that means there is a duplicate value we're trying to add a node with
a value that is already there.
If the nodes value is greater than the marker's value then we have to do one of two things.
Either make the markers write a note equal to the new node or moved down over to the right which is
what we do here.
If the markers right node doesn't have a value the markers right node is empty.
Then we make it equal to the new node.
We put the new node under the right of the marker.
And if it does have a value then we make the marker equal to the markers.
Right.
No we just moved down over to the right and we do the opposite with a left.
If the nodes value is less than the markers value then we have to either put the new node at the left
of the marker or make the marker equal its own left.
So we can move down over to the left.
So we're going to make the markers left node equal to the node Eve the markers left node doesn't have
a value and if it does have a value then we're going to make the markers equal to the markers left node
.
So we can move down to the left and then repeat again at the top of the While loop.
The fine method is going to do something similar but instead of raising an error instead of raising
an error up here.
If the nodes value is equal to the markers value the find method is going to get a value.
And if the value is equal to the marker then we're going to return the marker because we found and if
not then we're going to just call it right or left depending on whether the value is greater than or
less than the current mark.
Finally at the end we're going to raise an error because we didn't find a node with that value to get
started just download the zip file down there and all you have to do once you've downloaded it it's
double click it drag the files into a folder of your choice and open that folder with pyjama.
As usual the download is down there or is also in the curriculum app.
Once you've done that that means we are ready to go into pyjama and open the thing up which I've done
here and now we've got some code available for you that I'm going to go over just now.
We have first of all a node and the node now is a bit different from what it was in the last three assignments
the node has an innate method which has some data and a value.
The value is what we're going to be ordering on.
So this is going to be numbers from 1 2 3 4 5 and so on.
If the note has a value 1 and we try to add a node with value to that node the value to 1 is going to
go to the right.
And speaking of left and right the node also has two properties instead of the next node.
Now we have self left and self-taught right.
The one for the left note and the one for the right note however set right and set left and get right
and get left are pretty much identical to set next and get next only instead of setting the next node
where setting the right or the left nodes.
Finally we also have a print details method there as well.
Now let's look at the binary tree the minority tree is the binary tree implementation.
We no longer the pen on a linked list because the list is limited to being linear and the tree is branching
.
So we cannot use a list as an underlying structure.
The binary tree is its own data structure but it starts with a root as well and that's defined here
in the in its method.
To add a new node we're going to have to implement this method here and I've done a fair amount for
you but there is a bit that I've not done and what I've done is I've said is the root is not and then
we're going to sense the root to be the new node we're adding.
And if not we're going to iterate and traverse the tree by creating a marker which is going to be a
root while the market has a value we're going to be going over into the right or the left node.
But if the nodes value the one we're adding is equal to the Matar's value we should raise a value error
.
So you'd have to change that.
If the nodes value is greater than the marker's value then we have to move to the right or add to the
node at the right.
And you have to implement that.
And finally else the nodes value is less than the market value would have to move to the left or add
the node towards the left.
So you're going to have to do that there.
Finally the find method is completely unimplemented and you're going to have to do all of that but it's
going to be fairly similar to what you've got here.
Let me tell you that.
So we're going to be going over to the right or over to the left depending on the value that we've passed
in here.
And finally when we find a node with that value we're going to return that node and if we don't we're
going to raise a lookup area.
What we've got down here is to print the no doubt.
You can look at that and read it but it's not as important as the other two methods.
And I've done those for you.
So once that was done give it a go go over to the next lecture which is a text lecture which has a downloadable
files and you can download this project from there and give it a go.
And it's more complicated I think than the other assignments but I'd still recommend that you take your
time a few days if necessary to give this a go on and really try and implement it.
And once that's done you can move over to the following video where we're going to be going over the
implementation.
So hopefully this will be a great learning experience for you.
And without further ado I would see you in the very next video.
And remember as always you can always run your tests once you have implemented some code.
Ok that's it for this video so I'll see you in the very next one.